#applications #microsoft

## Office365 vs Microsoft 365
Microsoft365 refers to the cloud-based productivity platform - this encapsulates Office 365 and includes advanced device management, intelligent security and other online services.
## Office 365
A SaaS (Software as a Service) - is could based and includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook along with services such as Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint, Teams and OneDrive.  

## Microsoft 365
Cloud based service that includes the same Office apps and services, plus Windows, and **Enterprise Mobility + Security (EMS)**.
#### EMS
Mobility management and security platform to protect and secure an organization. Includes the following services: Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) and Microsoft Intune. 
**Entra ID** is an identity and access management solution with integrated security to manage and protect access for employees, customers and partners as they connect to their apps, devices, and data. **Intune** is a cloud-based endpoint management and security solution for managing users, devices, and apps across iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS. 
#### Microsoft Graph
A "gateway" to data and intelligence in Microsoft 365. Analyzes users behavior and collects insights on data and activities from the use of Microsoft products and services. This is integral to Microsoft Copilot, the AI-powered productivity tool included in Microsoft 365. Copilot is powered by LLMs and integrates with Microsoft 365 apps and services. 

#### Other tools
Microsoft 365 includes the following work management tools: Project, Planner, Bookings, To Do, Forms, and Lists. 
###### Power Apps and Power Automate: 
Power Apps provides a low code development environment for building custom apps for business needs. Power Automate allows for automated workflows between applications and services. 
###### Microsoft Project
Project management tool designed for complex work efforts with many tasks, resources and dependencies.  Can be used to plan and track work that might require dynamic scheduling, budgeting, subtasks, and/or dependent tasks.  

###### Microsoft Planner
Light-weight task management tool to enable planning, management and completion of task-based initiatives. Provides a simple and visual way for teams to organize work. Can be integrated with Teams. 

###### Microsoft Bookings
Appointment scheduling and management system, aiming to simplify these processes. Includes a web-based booking calendar, and is integrated with Outlook to optimize staff calendars and allowing customers booking flexibility. Also integrates with Teams.

###### Microsoft To Do 
Intelligent task management app, for daily planning and time management. Can be synced across Outlook, Teams, Planner, and can generate tasks from flagged Outlook emails. (More like a reminders app than a calendar)

###### Microsoft Forms
Allows for simple creation of surveys, quizzes, polls, questionnaires, registrations, etc. Can be exported to Excel. 

###### Microsoft Lists
Information tracking app allowing for team collaboration. Can be automated and revision history is saved. 

##### Productivity Apps
###### Clipchamp
In-browser video creation and editing software
###### Delve
Manages Microsoft 365 profile
###### Dynamics 365
Set of intelligent business applications to help run businesses and deliver through AI insight. Aims to unify customer relationship management and enterprise resource planning. Allows for collecting, analyzing and tracking of real-time feedback from customers
###### Loop
Co-creation experience to bring together teams, content and tasks across tools and devices. Uses a portable canvas, which syncs across applications.
###### Power BI
Cloud-based business analytics tools to visualize and analyze data. Integrates with Excel and Copilot. 
###### Sway
For record of ideas on an interactive web-based canvas, allowing for creation of professional, interactive, and visually appealing designs from images, text, documents, presentations, videos, and maps.
###### Whiteboard
Freeform, digital canvas. Functions like a traditional whiteboard but is hosted virtually, allowing for Teams integration and collaboration. 

##### Collaboration Apps
###### SharePoint
Allows for sharing and storing of files in "Sites". Can be used to share company news, co-author documents, detail events, etc.
###### Teams
Used for general communication, allowing for messaging, calls, sharing images and websites either one on one or in groups. Uses M365 accounts, and was designed to address the clutter and disorganization of constant emails. Integrates with Power Apps and Automate, Dynamics 365, and other third party services. 
###### OneDrive
Powers the collaborative files experience across M365. Files and photos can be accessed from all devices, and Office integration is supported on web, mobile and desktop. Access can be managed via links to users either inside or outside an organization.
###### Viva Suite (previously Yammer)
Social network targeted at organizations. Aims to enhance the existing applications found in M365, not be a standalone platform. Allows for both an Internal (organization) and External (invited users) network.
###### Microsoft Stream
Allows for creating, sharing, and managing live and on-demand videos within a small team, or across an organization. Integrates with Teams, Yammer, and SharePoint. Features in-video face detection and speech to text dictation.
###### Exchange
A hosted messaging solution, allows syncing of emails, calendars, and contact information across devices. Users can create public folders for shared access of information or create shared mailboxes so users can read and send emails on their behalf. 
###### Outlook
Email messaging app, integrates with Teams, as well as a user's calendar appointments and contacts. User's availability can be shared and groups can be created to send messages, share files, and schedule events on a group calendar. 
